# Help!

This page includes some help topics. 

**Look for the beginner 🔰 icon for common problems and questions.**

- [Folder Locations](#folder-locations)
    - [Included Directories](#included-directories)
- [Using and Installing Modpacks](#using-and-installing-modpacks)
    - [🔰 How to Start a New Modpack](#-how-to-start-a-new-modpack)
    - [🔰 How to Import a Modpack](#-how-to-import-a-modpack)
    - [How to Install Mods](#how-to-install-mods)
        - [Installing from Local Files](#installing-from-local-files)
        - [🔰 Installing from your Steam Workshop Subscriptions](#-installing-from-your-steam-workshop-subscriptions)
        - [Installing from the Steam Workshop](#installing-from-the-steam-workshop)
        - [Advanced: Installing Unlisted/Hidden/Friends-Only mods from the Steam Workshop](#advanced-installing-unlistedhiddenfriends-only-mods-from-the-steam-workshop)
- [Playing in Multiplayer](#playing-in-multiplayer)
    - [Running Dedicated Servers](#running-dedicated-servers)
- [🔰 Automatic Setup Failed! What do I do?](#-automatic-setup-failed-what-do-i-do)
    - [Setup Failed: SteamCMD](#steamcmd-failed)
    - [Setup Failed: (Open)Starbound](#starbound-failed-or-openstarbound-failed)

# Folder Locations

* Windows: `%APPDATA%\Xan's Workshop\StarboundModManager`
    * Open Start, and paste this into the search bar. It should show you a folder. Click on it.
* macOS: `~/Library/Application Support/Xan's Workshop/StarboundModManager`
    * In Finder, open the Go menu, press Go To Folder, and paste this in. Double click it.
* Linux: `~/.local/share/Xan's Workshop/StarboundModManager`
    * Refer to [xkcd #927](https://xkcd.com/927/).

## Included Directories

* `sbmm_logs` - Logs for the program, generated by the Godot engine. **This is safe to delete if you want to.**
* `mod_catalog_manual` - The mods that you have manually installed i.e. not from the Steam Workshop
* `mod_catalog_workshop` - The mods downloaded from the Steam Workshop.
* `objectdb_snapshots` - Pretty sure this is editor only, it's a Godot thing.
* `profiles` - Your modpacks are stored in here. They are named by ID, which you can see when you open the editor dialog.
    * A profile has a GUID name, like `3ce685e8-08f4-4c9d-93cd-e875eaa9dea9` for example. Inside there is:
        * `logs` - Your client logs. **Only created once you start the game for the first time.**
        * `storage` - Your save files and universe for singleplayer. **Only created once you start the game for the first time.**
        * `logs_server` - The dedicated server logs. **Only created once you start the server for the first time.**
        * `storage_server` - Your dedicated server's save files and universe. **Only created once you start the server for the first time.**
        * `info.json` - The modpack's information (name, author, description, and some other internals) are stored here.
        * `sbinit.config` - The launch configuration for Starbound. **Do not edit this file, as it is overwritten every time you launch.**
        * `sbinit_server.config` - The launch configuration for the dedicated server. **Do not edit this file, as it is overwritten every time you launch.**
* `shader_cache` - **Unrelated to Starbound,** this is just used by the Godot engine for its rendering.
* `starbound` - The local installation of OpenStarbound that SBMM uses.
* `steamcmd` - The local installation of SteamCMD that SBMM uses.
* `steamcmd_tempscripts` - This directory temporarily stores script files, which contain sets of commands for SteamCMD to install things like workshop mods. Scripts are deleted after they are used, so this folder is usually empty, but if you see anything left inside after you exit, you can delete them.
* `vulkan`/`opengl`/`metal` - **Unrelated to Starbound,** again something specific to the Godot engine.
* `workshop_description_image_cache` - A cache for all the images that are inside the description of mods from the Steam Workshop. **This is safe to delete if you want to.**

# Using and Installing Modpacks

This is information on how to actually use the application.

## 🔰 How to Start a New Modpack

This creates a new, blank modpack.

1. Press the icon with the green + in the top bar. The Starbound icon will appear below, with the text "No Name" under it.
2. Click on this modpack, and press the icon with the white gear at the top. Alternatively, right click it and press "Edit this modpack".
3. Set any information you wish to set. You can change the pack's icon by clicking on it.
4. To add mods, see the next section: [How to Install Mods](#how-to-install-mods)

Done!

## 🔰 How to Import a Modpack

This is for if your friend gives you a `.sbmm` file. You can use this to download the same mods they have automatically, that way you can play together.

1. Press the icon with the green down arrow in the top bar.
2. Select the .sbmm file your friend gave you.
3. Click "Import"

Done!

## How to Install Mods

Unlike normal Starbound, you **do not** drag anything into a "mods" directory. Instead, installation is easy:

### Installing from Local Files

This is what you do if you have `.pak` files or unpacked mod folders.

1. Right click on your modpack, and press "Edit this modpack"
2. Press on the "View Mod List" tab at the top
3. Drag-and-drop your .pak file, unpacked mod, *or even your entire mods folder* from another install, onto the window.

Done!

### 🔰 Installing from your Steam Workshop Subscriptions

Importing your Steam Workshop subscriptions is one of SBMM's best features.

1. *Launch the game to ensure Steam updates your installations!*
2. Right click on your modpack, and press "Edit this modpack"
3. Press on the "View Mod List" tab at the top
4. Press "Import Subscriptions" in the bottom left.

Done!

### Installing from the Steam Workshop

You can also install new mods from the Steam Workshop. Once you've found a mod or collection you want, copy its link, then...

1. Right click on your modpack, and press "Edit this modpack"
2. Press on the "View Mod List" tab at the top.
3. In the lower right, press "Import Other..."
4. Paste the Steam Workshop link or ID into the text area that says "Input Steam Workshop ID or link..."
    * This works with both mods and collections.
5. Press "Import" at the bottom.
6. Wait for it to download. This can take a while for large mods.
    * **Note:** Due to limitations in software, the progress bar shows what percentage of files have been completed, not the progress of individual downloads. Sorry.

### Advanced: Installing Unlisted/Hidden/Friends-Only mods from the Steam Workshop

SBMM uses an *anonymous steam account* (a built in feature from Valve) to access the Starbound workshop. The caveat of this design is that it cannot see anything other than public mods, so if you try to import a private mod, it will fail.

To get around this, you'll need to install it to your Steam account, then use the "Import Subscriptions" button. See [Installing from the Steam Workshop](#installing-from-the-steam-workshop) up above.


# Playing in Multiplayer

Multiplayer works the same as the Steam installation of Starbound, and so you should follow instructions for playing multiplayer on Steam. This means that if you and your friend(s) own the game on Steam, you can join each other through the Steam friends list, just like you would in normal Starbound.

If you or your friend(s) do not own the game, you'll need to run a dedicated server instead.

## Running Dedicated Servers

Like singleplayer saves, SBMM has server saves which are unique per-modpack, and separate from your singleplayer data. To run a dedicated server:

1. Select your modpack.
2. Prepare by pressing the pink play button at the top to start the dedicated server, and then exiting once it's done starting (wait for it to say "Listening for incoming connections ...")
3. Once finished and exited, right click your modpack.
4. Click "Open modpack folder".
5. Open the `storage_server`\* folder and edit `starbound_server.config` with your choice of text editor to configure your server.
6. Press the pink play button again to launch the server again.

\* **Note:** This file will not exist until you run the server for the first time. That's why the instructions tell you to launch it and then exit right after.

# 🔰 Automatic Setup Failed! What do I do?

When setup fails, you might need to perform the setup tasks manually.

## SteamCMD Failed

If you saw an error with SteamCMD, you'll need to install SteamCMD manually. If you *didn't* see an error with SteamCMD, keep scrolling down!

SteamCMD is a tool made by Valve which allows using certain Steam-related functions without actually running Steam. SBMM uses it to download Workshop mods for you.

To install SteamCMD:

1. Download the archive for it.
    * **Windows**: https://steamcdn-a.akamaihd.net/client/installer/steamcmd.zip
	* **Mac**: https://steamcdn-a.akamaihd.net/client/installer/steamcmd_osx.tar.gz
    * **Linux**: https://steamcdn-a.akamaihd.net/client/installer/steamcmd_linux.tar.gz
2. Extract the archive **into the `steamcmd` folder for the program.**
    * Folder locations and instructions on how to get there are at the top of this page.
    1. If a `steamcmd` folder doesn't exist in `StarboundModManager`, create it yourself.
    2. Run `steamcmd.exe` (or `steamcmd.sh` on Mac/Linux). It will do some setup, and make a bunch of other files. Once you see `Steam>` at the very bottom, you can exit.
    * **LINUX USERS:** You may need to install some C dependencies for this to work.
        * **As far as I know, having Steam installed does already this for you.** I tested this by installing Steam from flatpak and it added the dependencies for me. Basically, [try it and see](https://tryitands.ee).
        * If it doesn't work, check [Valve's documentation on SteamCMD](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD).

## Starbound Failed or OpenStarbound Failed

**You only need to do these steps if you saw an error with Starbound.**

> [!CAUTION]
> You can not complete this unless you have Starbound installed. Make sure you have the game installed from Steam or whatever other source you got it from!

(Yes, this even works for the copy of Starbound you "found" mysteriously. Just follow the instructions. The system doesn't care *how* you got the game, just that you have it. Starbound is Starbound.)

## Part 1: Download OpenStarbound

> [!NOTE]
> If the error said "OpenStarbound installation is incomplete", skip to Part 2!

1. Download OpenStarbound.
    * Downloads are [here, scroll down to the bottom](https://github.com/OpenStarbound/OpenStarbound/releases/latest). Click on...
        * **Windows**: `OpenStarbound-Windows-Client.zip`
        * **Mac**: Click the Apple logo in the top left of your computer, then press "About This Mac"
            * Chip says "Intel" somewhere: `OpenStarbound-macOS-Intel-Client.zip`
            * Otherwise: `OpenStarbound-macOS-Silicon-Client.zip`
        * **Linux:** `OpenStarbound-Linux-Clang-Client.zip`
2. Extract OpenStarbound **into the `starbound` folder for the program.**
    * Folder locations and instructions on how to get there are at the top of this page.
    1. If a `starbound` folder doesn't exist in `StarboundModManager`, create it yourself.
    2. On Windows, drag everything inside of the .zip file into `starbound`.
    3. On Mac and Linux, open the `client_distribution` folder that's inside of the .zip, and then drag everything in there into `starbound`.
    4. **If you did it correctly, your `starbound` folder should now have two folders inside**: An `assets` folder, and either `win`, `osx`, or `linux` depending on your OS.
3. **Repeat these steps with the `Server` zip file instead of the `Client` zip file** (unless you are on Mac, in which case there is no server and you can skip this step).

## Part 2: Integrate Starbound Assets

You have several options to import Starbound's assets.

### Option 1: Copy files

**This is only available on versions 0.5.0 or higher.**

1. In your Starbound installation, copy the `tiled` folder.
2. Paste the `tiled` folder into the same folder as SBMM's exe/app file.
3. In your Starbound installation, open the `assets` folder, and copy `packed.pak`
4. Paste the `packed.pak` file into the same folder as SBMM's exe/app file.

You are done! Try launching the app now.

### Option 2: From .zip file

**This is only available on versions 0.5.0 or higher.**

1. If you have a Starbound install in the form of a .zip file, copy it into the same folder as SBMM's exe/app.
2. **Make sure the zip file is named `starbound.zip`**
    * On Windows, it may not have the `.zip` at the end at the end of its name. Windows hides file extensions by default. 

**Note:** If this doesn't work, you can just do Option 1. Copy the files out of the zip file to do it.

You are done! Try launching the app now.

### Option 3: Manually (Not Recommended)

You should only do this if the other two options fail. This option is the most complex and you are basically doing what the app does manually.

* **REMEMBER: Your "OpenStarbound folder" is the one you just dragged `assets` and `win`/`osx`/`linux` into in the step before.**
    * If you skipped the last step, you need to open the `starbound` folder inside of SBMM's data directory.
    * Folder locations and instructions on how to get there are at the top of this page.
* **REMEMBER: Your "Steam Starbound folder" is the one from Steam** (or wherever else you downloaded it from).
1. To open your **Steam Starbound folder**, right click on Starbound in Steam, and go to `Manage` > `Browse local files`.
2. Copy the `tiled` folder *from* the **Steam Starbound folder**, and paste it *into* the **OpenStarbound folder**.
    * If you did this right, you should now have *three* folders inside of the **OpenStarbound folder**: `assets`, `tiled`, and `win`/`osx`/`linux`.
2. Open the `assets` folder inside of the **Steam Starbound folder**.
3. Open the `assets` folder inside of the **OpenStarbound folder**.
4. Copy `packed.pak` *from* `assets` in the **Steam Starbound folder** *into* `assets` in the **OpenStarbound folder**
    * If you did this right, `assets` inside of your **OpenStarbound folder** should now have two files: `opensb.pak` and `packed.pak`.

You are done! Try launching the app now.